In a pangram, each letter occurs exactly once. Here are a collection of Hebrew pangrams you might use while testing these fonts.

שפן אכל קצת גזר בטעם חסה, ודי
English translation: A rabbit ate some lettuce flavored carrot, and that's it.

In Hebrew, there are 5 letters with a final form, different than its normal form. These pangrams contain all letters + the 5 final forms:

איך נטוס עם גד כץ, הזקן שמחלף בצרפת?
English translation: How will we fly with Gad Katz, the old person who is replaced in France?

עטלף אבק נס דרך מזגן שהתפוצץ כי חם
English translation: A dust bat ran away through an air conditioner which exploded because it's hot.

דג סקרן שט בים מאוכזב ולפתע מצא חברה
English translation: A curious fish sailed the sea disappointedly, and suddenly found company.
		
כך התרסק נפץ על גוזל קטן, שדחף את צבי למים
English translation: An explosive crashed into a small chick, which pushed my turtle into the water. 


Pangrams in the Torah

או הנסה אלהים, לבוא לקחת לו גוי מקרב גוי, במסת באתת ובמופתים ובמלחמה וביד חזקה ובזרוע נטויה, ובמוראים גדלים: ככל אשר-עשה לכם יהוה אלהיכם, במצרים—לעיניך (Deuteronomy 4:34)
English translation (from JPS 1917): Or hath God assayed to go and take Him a nation from the midst of another nation, by trials, by signs, and by wonders, and by war, and by a mighty hand, and by an outstretched arm, and by great terrors, according to all that YHVH your God did for you in Egypt before thine eyes?

The only verse in the Hebrew Bible that contains all medial forms of the letters plus all final forms:
לכן חכו לי נאם יהוה ליום קומי לעד, כי משפטי לאסף גוים לקבצי ממלכות, לשפך עליהם זעמי כל חרון אפי, כי באש קנאתי תאכל כל הארץ (Zephaniah 3:8)
English translation (from JPS 1917): Therefore wait ye for Me, saith YHVH, Until the day that I rise up to the prey; For My determination is to gather the nations, That I may assemble the kingdoms, To pour upon them Mine indignation, Even all My fierce anger; For all the earth shall be devoured With the fire of My jealousy.